WIP: devcontainer configuration (#6424)
openstreetmap/openstreetmap-website: DEVCONTAINER.md

# Using Development Containers for development and testing

> You can set up a development environment for this project using [Development Containers](https://containers.dev/), aka. devcontainers.

Reviewer: Since this is an acronym rather than an abbreviation, either use "a.k.a." or no punctuation at all :)

```suggestion
You can set up a development environment for this project using [Development Containers](https://containers.dev/), aka devcontainers.
```

> There are different ways of working with devcontainers, some are automated and integrated in IDE applications, while others are more manual and require CLI tools. This guide will use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) and assumes that it's installed already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different ways of working with devcontainers. Some are automated and integrated in IDE applications, while others are more manual and require CLI tools. This guide will use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) and assumes that it's installed already.
```

Be aware that the containers will take significant space in your hard drive, in the region of 6GB.

## Install Git

You will need Git to clone (download) the code repository and push changes. How to install Git will depend on your operating system.

### Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, Debian 13 (Trixie)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install git-core
```

### Fedora

```bash
sudo dnf install git
```

### macOS

For macOS, you will need [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://mac.install.guide/commandlinetools/); macOS 14 (Sonoma) or later; and some familiarity with Unix development via the Terminal.

### Windows

You can install Git using [WinGet](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/package-manager/winget/):

```bash
winget install --id Git.Git -e --source winget
```

Alternatively, see [other install options](https://git-scm.com/install/windows).

## Install Docker

> Devcontainers run on top of Docker, which needs to be installed. Again, the methods will depend on your operating system.

Reviewer 2: S: Change grammar
```suggestion
You will need to install Docker in order to run devcontainers. Again, the methods will depend on your operating system.
```

or
```suggestion
Installing Docker is required in order to run devcontainers. Again, the methods will depend on your operating system.
```

or alternatively
```suggestion
Devcontainers run on top of Docker, which needs to be installed on your operating system. Again, the methods will depend on your operating system.
```
(though this introduces duplicate text 'operating system'.)

There are different ways of working with devcontainers, some are automated and integrated in IDE applications, while others are more manual and require CLI tools. This guide will use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) as an example.

## Install Git and Docker

You will need Git to work with the code repository, and Docker to run the devcontainer. Depending on your Operating System, the process will be different. See [DOCKER.md](DOCKER.md) for installation instructions.

**TODO: instructions to install Git.**

## Install Dev Containers extension

Start by opening the project with VS Code. Within it, you will need to install the extension _Dev Containers_, which can be done from the _Extensions_ section, reachable via the sidebar icons.

![VS Code: panel to install extensions](./docs/assets/vscode-devcontainers-extension.png)

## Open the project in a container

If everything is correct, this should make a few new commands available to you within VS Code. Find and run the command "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container".

![VS Code: command to open in a devcontainer](./docs/assets/vscode-dev-reopen.png)

> The first time you do this, it will go into a bit of a process. It will create the devcontainer, pull the Docker images, install the dependencies, etc. Go drink some water while this runs.

Author: I'll have a look, but it's going to be in the same ballpark as the Docker install that we already document.
